1.copy cut and paste
  y copy selected area
  yy copy current line, just as Y, to buffer
  Y copy current line
  nyy copy n lines to buffer
  dd delete current line
  p paste content after cursor
  P paste content before cursor
  x cut selected area
  dG delete all
  VG select all from current to the end of file
  vgg select all from current to the begining of file
  Yp copy current line to next line

2.enter visual mode
  v enter characterwise visual mode
  V enter linewise visual mode
  ctrl-V enter block visual mode

3.redo and undo
  u undo the last operation
  ctrl-r redo the change

4.jump and move
  0  move to the beginning of current line
  gg move to the beginning of current file
  G  move to the end of current file
  w  move forward to the beginning of the next word
  W  move forward to the beginning of the next space-terminated word ignore
		  punctuation
  b  move backward to the beginning of the current word, or backward one word if
          already at start
  B  move backward to the beginning of the current space-terminated word, ignore
          punctuation
  e  move to the end of word, or to next word if already at end
  E  move to the end of space-terminated word, ignore punctuation
  ^  jump to start of text on the current line. Far superior to leaning on
          left-arrow or h key
  $  jump to the end of current line. Far superior to leaning on right-arrow or
          k key

  %  move the matching brace, paren , etc, good for code monkeys!
  }  move to end of paragraph (first empty line)
  {  move to start of paragragh
  (  move to start of sentence (separator is both period and space)
  )  move to start of next sentence (separator is both period and space)
  "  move to location of your last edit in the current file
  ]] move to the next function/class (in c/c++/java/python)
  [[ move to the previous function/class (in c/java/c++/python)
  ctrl+b scroll page backward
  ctrl+f scroll page forward

5.save and open
  :q quit the current window(or editor if you're out of windows) if there is no
      unsaved changes
  :q! quit the current window even if there are unsaved changes
  :qa quit all windows unless there are unsaved changes
  :qa! quit all windows even if there are unsaved changes
  :wq save changes and quit current window
  ZZ save changes and quit current window(as :wq)
  :e! discard all changes and reload file
  :e+filename load named file and edit, if file not exsits, create it

6.move by context, not position
  /+pattern search forward: will prompt for a pattern
  / repeat last search and show next pattern
  ? search backward: will prompt for a pattern
  n repeat the last search (like dot for searches!)
  N repeat the last search in an opposite direction

7. others
  :sh change to shell
  c-d when in shell, return to vim

8. vim modes(see :help vim-mode)
  1) Normal mode
  2) Visual mode
  3) Command mode
  4) Insert mode
  5) Select mode
  6) Ex mode

9. map keys
  Command Normal Visual Operator Insert Command
	:map	 y	    y	    y
	:nmap	 y
	:vmap		    y
	:omap			        y
	:map!				            y      y
	:imap				            y
	:cmap					               y

10. extras
  ,be open buffer explorer
  ,zz max current window or resume window size.
